docs/pynostr.md, before:

<a id="pynostr"></a>

# pynostr

This module provides nostr basic functionalities.

<a id="pynostr.Contact"></a>

#### Contact

Contact is defined by a public key, a relay and a petname. It is implemented
as a `namedtuple` with `pubkey`, `relay` and `petname` fieldnames.
```python
>>> import pynostr
>>> contac = Contact(
...    pubkey=
...      "9aa650df414cc71b37176412aecba987727b6f1b8cd550f40e9ca10b7af5a239",
...    relay="wss://relay.nostr.info",
...    petname="Toon's"
... )
>>> print(contact)
Contact(pubkey='9aa65[...]5a239', relay='wss:/[...].info', petname="Toon's")
```

<a id="pynostr.dump_contact"></a>

#### dump\_contact

```python
def dump_contact(name: str, *contacts) -> None
```

Store a list of [contact](#pynostr.Contact) as json format. Files are stored in
`<pynostr.__path__[0]>/.contact` folder. Folder `.contact` is created if
needed.

**Arguments**:

- `name` _str_ - filename to be used.
- `*contact` - variable length of [contact](#pynostr.Contact)

<a id="pynostr.load_contact"></a>

#### load\_contact

```python
def load_contact(name: str) -> list
```

Load a list of [contact](#pynostr.Contact) from a file stored in
`<pynostr.__path__[0]>/.contact` folder. Return an empty list if file or
`.contact` folder do not exist.

**Arguments**:

- `name` _str_ - filename to be used.

**Returns**:

- `list` - list of [contact](#pynostr.Contact).

<a id="pynostr.send_event"></a>

#### send\_event

```python
async def send_event(event: dict, uri: str) -> list
```

Push single event to a single relay and return responses.

**Arguments**:

- `event` _dict_ - the event given as a python dict.
- `uri` _str_ - relay uri.

**Returns**:

- `list` - relay response as python list.

<a id="pynostr.to_bech32"></a>

#### to\_bech32

```python
def to_bech32(prefix: str, hexa: str) -> str
```

Encode string to a prefixed nostr-bech32 string.

**Arguments**:

- `prefix` _str_ - prefix to be used by bech32 encoder.
- `hexa` _str_ - string to be encoded.

**Returns**:

- `str` - encoded string.

<a id="pynostr.from_bech32"></a>

#### from\_bech32

```python
def from_bech32(b32: str) -> str
```

Decode a nostr-bech32 string to hexadecimal string.

**Arguments**:

- `b32` _str_ - nostr-bech32 encoded string.

**Returns**:

- `str` - decoded string.

**Raises**:

- `Bech32DecodeError` - if error occurs within bech32 module.

<a id="pynostr.bech32_puk"></a>

#### bech32\_puk

```python
def bech32_puk(pubkey: str) -> str
```

Return a nostr public key according to [NIP 19](
https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/19.md)

**Arguments**:

- `pubkey` _str_ - public key as hex string

**Returns**:

- `str` - nostr public key

<a id="pynostr.bech32_prk"></a>

#### bech32\_prk

```python
def bech32_prk(prvkey: str) -> str
```

Return a nostr private key according to [NIP 19](
https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/19.md)

**Arguments**:

- `prvkey` _str_ - private key as hex string

**Returns**:

- `str` - nostr private key

<a id="pynostr.bech32_nid"></a>

#### bech32\_nid

```python
def bech32_nid(noteid: str) -> str
```

Return a nostr event id according to [NIP 19](
https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/19.md)

**Arguments**:

- `noteid` _str_ - event id as hex string

**Returns**:

- `str` - nostr event id

<a id="pynostr.Bech32DecodeError"></a>

## Bech32DecodeError Objects

```python
class Bech32DecodeError(Exception)
```

Exception used for unsuccessful bech32 processing

Commit message:

docs: added send_event exemple

docs/pynostr.md, after:

<a id="pynostr"></a>

# pynostr

This module provides nostr basic functionalities.

<a id="pynostr.Contact"></a>

#### Contact

Contact is defined by a public key, a relay and a petname. It is implemented
as a `namedtuple` with `pubkey`, `relay` and `petname` fieldnames.
```python
>>> import pynostr
>>> contac = Contact(
...    pubkey=
...      "9aa650df414cc71b37176412aecba987727b6f1b8cd550f40e9ca10b7af5a239",
...    relay="wss://relay.nostr.info",
...    petname="Toon's"
... )
>>> print(contact)
Contact(pubkey='9aa65[...]5a239', relay='wss:/[...].info', petname="Toon's")
```

<a id="pynostr.dump_contact"></a>

#### dump\_contact

```python
def dump_contact(name: str, *contacts) -> None
```

Store a list of [contact](#pynostr.Contact) as json format. Files are stored in
`<pynostr.__path__[0]>/.contact` folder. Folder `.contact` is created if
needed.

**Arguments**:

- `name` _str_ - filename to be used.
- `*contacts` - variable length of [contact](#pynostr.Contact)

<a id="pynostr.load_contact"></a>

#### load\_contact

```python
def load_contact(name: str) -> list
```

Load a list of [contact](#pynostr.Contact) from a file stored in
`<pynostr.__path__[0]>/.contact` folder. Return an empty list if file or
`.contact` folder do not exist.

**Arguments**:

- `name` _str_ - filename to be used.

**Returns**:

- `list` - list of [contact](#pynostr.Contact).

<a id="pynostr.send_event"></a>

#### send\_event

```python
async def send_event(event: dict, uri: str) -> list
```

Push single event to a single relay and return responses.

**Arguments**:

- `event` _dict_ - the event given as a python dict.
- `uri` _str_ - relay uri.

**Returns**:

- `list` - relay response as python list.

**Examples**:

  Here is a snippet of python code to send a text note to a specific nostr
  relay.
  
  ```python
  >>> from pynostr import event
  >>> e = event.Event.text_note("Hello nostr !").sign()
  Type or paste your passphrase >
  >>> send_event(e.__dict__, "wss://relay.nostr.info")
  ['OK', '2781d[...]d28c9', True, '']
  ```

<a id="pynostr.to_bech32"></a>

#### to\_bech32

```python
def to_bech32(prefix: str, hexa: str) -> str
```

Encode string to a prefixed nostr-bech32 string.

**Arguments**:

- `prefix` _str_ - prefix to be used by bech32 encoder.
- `hexa` _str_ - string to be encoded.

**Returns**:

- `str` - encoded string.

<a id="pynostr.from_bech32"></a>

#### from\_bech32

```python
def from_bech32(b32: str) -> str
```

Decode a nostr-bech32 string to hexadecimal string.

**Arguments**:

- `b32` _str_ - nostr-bech32 encoded string.

**Returns**:

- `str` - decoded string.

**Raises**:

- `Bech32DecodeError` - if error occurs within bech32 module.

<a id="pynostr.bech32_puk"></a>

#### bech32\_puk

```python
def bech32_puk(pubkey: str) -> str
```

Return a nostr public key according to [NIP 19](
https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/19.md)

**Arguments**:

- `pubkey` _str_ - public key as hex string

**Returns**:

- `str` - nostr public key

<a id="pynostr.bech32_prk"></a>

#### bech32\_prk

```python
def bech32_prk(prvkey: str) -> str
```

Return a nostr private key according to [NIP 19](
https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/19.md)

**Arguments**:

- `prvkey` _str_ - private key as hex string

**Returns**:

- `str` - nostr private key

<a id="pynostr.bech32_nid"></a>

#### bech32\_nid

```python
def bech32_nid(noteid: str) -> str
```

Return a nostr event id according to [NIP 19](
https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nips/blob/master/19.md)

**Arguments**:

- `noteid` _str_ - event id as hex string

**Returns**:

- `str` - nostr event id

<a id="pynostr.Bech32DecodeError"></a>

## Bech32DecodeError Objects

```python
class Bech32DecodeError(Exception)
```

Exception used for unsuccessful bech32 processing
